.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tutf8 function_plotter.en.man
.\"
.
.\" Macros .TQ .EX .EE taken from groff an-ext.tmac
.\" Copyright (C) 2007, 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" You may freely use, modify and/or distribute this file.
.
.\" Continuation line for .TP header.
.de TQ
.  br
.  ns
.  TP \\$1\" no doublequotes around argument!
..
.
.\" Start example.
.de EX
.  nr mE \\n(.f
.  nf
.  nh
.  ft CW
..
.
.
.\" End example.
.de EE
.  ft \\n(mE
.  fi
.  hy \\n(HY
..
.
.TH "function_plotter.lua" 1 2012-07-24 AKFAvatar
.
.SH NAME
function_plotter.lua \- function plotter for Lua-AKFAvatar
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "function_plotter.lua [" function ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Function plotter for Lua-AKFAvatar.
You can enter a function for the variable
.IR x ,
which will then be plotted.
For example, enter something like this: "(x/5)^3"
.PP
You can use the following operators:
.TP
.B +
plus (addition)
.TP
.B -
minus (substraction)
.TP
.B *
multiply (multiplication)
.TP
.B /
divide (division)
.TP
.B ^
exponentation (for example use "x^3" for x³)
.TP
.B %
modulo (the rest of a division)
.PP
For fractions you can use either a point or a comma as decimal mark.
So "0.5" or "0,5" is the same.
You cannot use a thousands separator.
The number \(*p can be written as "pi".
.PP
You can use the following functions:
.TP 10
.BI sqrt( x )
square root
.RI (\(sr x )
.TP
.BI exp( x )
.RI e^ x
.TP
.BI log( x )
natural logarithm
.TP
.BI log10( x )
base-10 logarithm
.TP
.BI deg( x )
convert to degree
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI rad( x )
covert to radians
.RI ( x " in degree)"
.TP
.BI sin( x )
sine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI sinh( x )
hyperbolic sine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI asin( x )
arc sine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI cos( x )
cosine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI cosh( x )
hyperbolic cosine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI acos( x )
arc cosine
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI tan( x )
tangent
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI tanh( x )
hyperbolic tangent
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.TP
.BI atan( x )
arc tangent
.RI ( x " in radians)"
.PP
.BR ATTENTION :
The argument for these functions must always be put in parentheses!
.PP
If you often need special functions or constant, it's easy to add them to the
script.
.PP
