.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tutf8 lua-akfavatar.1
.\"
.TH "lua-akfavatar" 1 "0.19.0" AKFAvatar

.SH NAME
lua-akfavatar \- Lua interpreter for the AKFavatar user interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lua-akfavatar [" options "] [" " script " "[" args "] ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Lua-AKFAvatar is the Lua interpreter for the AKFAvatar user interface.
It loads and executes Lua scripts in source form (not bytecode).
Either Lua scripts can be loaded or ".avt" demo files.
If no
.I script
is given, it starts with a file-selector.  The file-selector starts in
the current working directory, or in the directory given with the option
.IR --dir=directory .

The given
.I args
are available to
.I script
as strings in a global table named
.BR arg .
The
.I script
itself is in
.BR arg[0] ,
the first argument is
.B arg[1]
and so on.

You have to use the command
.BI "require """ lua-akfavatar """"
to get access to the AKFAvatar specific functions.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h | --help"
print a short help-message

.IP "-v | --version"
print version information

.TP
.RI "-l " name
call
.BI require(' name ')
before executing the script.
Typically used to load libraries.

.TP
.RI --dir= dir
Start in that directory

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LUA_PATH
searchpath for Lua modules.
Templates are separated with semicolons.
A question mark
.b (?)
is replaced with the module name.
A dot in the module name is replaced with the directory separator.
Two semicolons
.B (;;)
add the default path.
.IP LUA_CPATH
searchpath for C modules.  Syntax like in
.IR LUA_PATH .

.SH EXAMPLE
require "lua-akfavatar"
.sp
avt.initialize {title="my first program", encoding="UTF-8"}
.sp
avt.say("Hello there!\\n")
.br
user = avt.ask("What's your name? ")
.br
avt.say("Hello, ", user, ". Nice to meet you!\\n")
.br
avt.wait_button()

.SH AUTHORS
.IP "AKFAvatar, Lua-AKFAvatar"
Andreas K. Foerster
.IP "Lua"
R. Ierusalimschy, L. H. de Figueiredo, and W. Celes

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://akfavatar.nongnu.org/

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lua (1)
.br
http://akfavatar.nongnu.org/manual/
.br
http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/
