The format for running @command{lua-akfavatar} is:

@example
lua-akfavatar [@var{options}] [@var{script} [@var{args @dots{}}]]
@end example

Lua-AKFAvatar is the Lua interpreter for the AKFAvatar user interface.
It loads and executes Lua scripts in source form (not bytecode).
Either Lua scripts can be loaded or ``.avt'' demo files.
If no @var{script} is given, it starts with a file-selector.
The file-selector starts in the current working directory, or in the
directory given with the option @option{--dir=@var{directory}}.

The given @var{args} are available to @var{script} as strings in a 
global table named @code{arg}.
The @var{script} itself is in @code{arg[0]}, the first argument is
@code{arg[1]} and so on.

You have to use the command @samp{require "lua-akfavatar"}
to get access to the AKFAvatar specific functions.

The program @command{lua-akfavatar} supports the following options:

@comment don't use @option here
@table @code
@item -h
@itemx --help
print a short help-message

@item -v
@itemx --version
print version information

@item -l @var{name}
call @samp{require("@var{name}")} before executing the @var{script}.
Typically used to load libraries.

@item --dir=@var{directory}
Start in that @var{directory}

@end table

@subsection Environment variables

@table @code
@item LUA_PATH
searchpath for Lua modules.
Templates are separated with semicolons.
A question mark @samp{?} is replaced with the module name.
A dot in the module name is replaced with the directory separator.
Two semicolons @samp{;;} add the default path.

@item LUA_CPATH
searchpath for C modules.  Syntax like in @code{LUA_PATH}.
@end table

@need 1700
@subsection Example program

@example
require "lua-akfavatar"

avt.initialize @{title="my first program", encoding="UTF-8"@}

avt.say("Hello there!\n")
user = avt.ask("What's your name? ")
avt.say("Hello, ", user, ". Nice to meet you!\n")
avt.wait_button()
@end example

See @ref{Lua reference} for a description of all AKFAvatar-specific
commands.
The reference manual for the language Lua can be found on the Internet:
@uref{http://www.lua.org/manual/5.1/}.
